<<<<<<< HEAD
<<<<<<< HEAD
# javalite
=======
ActiveJDBC &mdash; ActiveRecord for Java
==========


ActiveJDBC is a Java implementation of Active Record design pattern. 
It was inspired by [ActiveRecord ORM](https://github.com/rails/rails/tree/master/activerecord) from Ruby on Rails.

## Design principles
* Should infer metadata from DB (like ActiveRecord)
* Should be very easy to work with
* Should reduce amount of code to a minimum
* No configuration, just conventions
* Some conventions are overridable in code
* No need to learn another language
* No need to learn another QL &mdash; SQL is sufficient
* Code must be lightweight and intuitive, should read like English
* No sessions, no "attaching, re-attaching"
* No persistence managers
* No classes outside your own models
* Models are lightweight, no transient fields
* No proxying. What you write is what you get (WYSIWYG:))
* Should have the least possible resistance to startup a project
* No useless getters and setters (they just pollute code). You can still write them if you like.
* No DAOs and DTOs &mdash; this is mostly junk code anyway

## Simple example

For a simple example we will use a table called `people` created with this MySQL DDL:

<pre>
CREATE TABLE people (
  id  int(11) NOT NULL auto_increment PRIMARY KEY, 
  name VARCHAR(56) NOT NULL, 
  last_name VARCHAR(56), 
  dob DATE, 
  graduation_date DATE, 
  created_at DATETIME, 
  updated_at DATETIME
);
</pre>

ActiveJDBC infers DB schema parameters from a database. This means you do not have to provide it in code, the simplest example model looks like this:

```java
public class Person extends Model {}
```

Despite the fact that there is no code in it, it is fully functional and will map to a table called `people` automatically.

Here is a simple query how to use the `Person` model:
 
```Java
List<Person> people = Person.where("name = 'John'");
Person aJohn =  people.get(0);
String johnsLastName = aJohn.get("last_name");
```

As you can see, the amount of code is reduced to a level when it is actually readable. Finder methods can also be parametrized like this:

```Java
List<Person> people = Person.where("name = ?", "John");
Person aJohn =  people.get(0);
String johnsLastName = aJohn.get("last_name");
```

## Documentation

For more information, follow here: http://javalite.io
=======
ActiveWeb &mdash; Java web development that doesn't hurt
=========

ActiveWeb is a Java web framework inspired by Ruby on Rails. It is optimized to be sustainable,  productive, and familiar for Java developers. 

## ActiveWeb design principles

* __Convention over configuration__: zero configuration is required to develop ActiveWeb applications, and some conventions are overridable.
* __Highest degree of developer productivity__: ActiveWeb allows developers to build real Java web projects without the need for the typical compile/package/deploy/start cycle. A container is started once, and development can continue. ActiveWeb will recompile controllers and reload them into a running container on the fly.
* __Adherence to Java standards__: ActiveWeb binds to core Java standards: JDBC and Servlets.
* __First-rate built-in testing capabilities__: ActiveWeb provides the ability to test every discrete business function, including data generated by business logic, the content and structure of generated HTML/JSON/XML/XYZ, and complex user scenarios, all without having to start a container. ActiveWeb is perfect for true TDD/BDD, and it promotes writing specifications (tests) before coding implementations.
* __Full stack web development platform__: unlike many other Java frameworks, such as JSF, Struts, Wicket, etc., which usually solve only one problem, ActiveWeb is a full stack development framework for the Web. It provides all features that are integrated together. This allows to start Java web projects very fast.
Integrated dependency injection - ActiveWeb integrates Google Guice as a dependency injection container.
* __ActiveWeb uses [ActiveJDBC](https://github.com/javalite/activejdbc) as ORM layer__. This is a lightweight integration, and both frameworks work very well together. However, developers still have the option of using a different ORM package if desired.
* __Built-in support for Unobtrusive JavaScript__: this allows for the development of dynamic Ajax applications without having to write repetitive JavaScript code. Unobtrusive JavaScript does not clutter HTML pages as generated JavaScript would.

## 5 minutes to understand ActiveWeb

Watch a quick video on Youtube that demonstrates ActiveWeb's ability to add code to the application dynamically, at run time:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YX1TAtuSqQE

## Documentation

All documentation is placed here: [http://javalite.io](http://javalite.io)
>>>>>>> activeweb/master


## Acknowledgement

Special thanks to folks at [IntelliJ](http://www.jetbrains.com/) for granting a license to this project
<<<<<<< HEAD

>>>>>>> activejdbc/master
=======
>>>>>>> activeweb/master
